Vision
From faces to feelings, allow your 
apps to understand images and video

o	Computer Vision https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-services/en-us/computer-vision-api
o	Face https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-services/en-us/face-api
o	Emotion https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-services/en-us/emotion-api
o	Video https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-services/en-us/video-api

Computer Vision API
It’s important to note here that it’s not client side running code, but light wrappers around the REST calls to make integration easy.  
A photo app would use this as a way to tag user photos and make it easier for users to search through their collections. 
Works really well on both indoor or outdoor images; it can recognize common household objects, and it can describe outdoor scenes. 
However, we did not train on aerial images (say from drones), or on many close ups (so pictures where we zoomed in extremely on the subject won't do well).
We also do really well recognizing celebrities (as long as most of the face is visible, and they were facing the camera). 

Face API
Some potential uses for this technology include facial login, photo tagging, and home monitoring.  
Or attribute detection to know age, gender, facial hair, etc.

Emotion API
Build an app that responds to moods. Using facial expressions, this cloud-based API can detect happiness, neutrality, sadness, contempt, anger, disgust, fear, and surprise. 
The AI understands these emotions based on universal facial expressions, and it functions cross-culturally, so your app will work around the world. 
Some use cases would be an advertising company wants to test user response to an ad, a tv studio wants to track responses to a pilot. 

Video API
It brings Microsoft state of the art video processing algorithms to developers. 
With Video API, developers can analyze and automatically edit videos, including stabilize videos, create motion thumbnails, track faces, and detect motion. 
Use cases: For Stabilization: If you have multiple action videos, you can use the stabilization algorithm to make them less shaky and easier to watch. 
You can also use the stabilization algorithm as a first step in performing other video APIs. 
For Face Tracking: You can track faces in a video to do A/B testing in a retail setting. 
You can combine Video API Face Tracking with capabilities in Face API to search through surveillance, crime, or media footage to look for certain person. 
